IIS Application Initialization (#10829)
aspnet/Docs: aspnetcore/host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module.md

1. Export the updated *applicationHost.config* file to the share.
1. Re-enable the IIS Shared Configuration.

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-2.2"

## Application Initialization

> App initialization is achieved for apps that use the [in-process hosting model](xref:fundamentals/servers/index#in-process-hosting-model) with [IIS Application Initialization](/iis/get-started/whats-new-in-iis-8/iis-80-application-initialization):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App initialization is an IIS feature that sends a fake HTTP request to the app. It can be used by both the [in-process hosting model](xref:fundamentals/servers/index#in-process-hosting-model) and [out-of-process hosting model](xref:fundamentals/servers/index#out-of-process-hosting-model) with [IIS Application Initialization](/iis/get-started/whats-new-in-iis-8/iis-80-application-initialization):
```

General suggestion. Make it grammatically fit here.

Author: It doesn't work out-of-process tho.

Author: I'll double-check, but I thought both Sourabh said so and my testing had the same outcome. I'll check again to make sure.

Reviewer: It should work with out of process. We have tests for it: https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore/blob/35746adf68798336bbb6d0f709b66a394c2734e9/src/Servers/IIS/IIS/test/IIS.Shared.FunctionalTests/ServicesTests.cs#L33

Reviewer: Check between AspNetCoreModule and AspNetCoreModuleV2

Author: oh ok ... sounds good ... must have been ANCMv1 that I'm thinking of (hence all of the earlier requests about the feature).

Author: btw - I found Sourabh's remark ...

https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore/issues/3849#issuecomment-432753492

... implies in-proc only. No worries ... I'll test it both ways.

Author: Testing confirms that both `StartMode` = `AlwaysRunning` and `Preload Enabled` = `True` must be set. Setting either of them doesn't work.

Testing out-of-proc with ANCMv2: :+1: :tada:

Testing out-of-proc with ANCMv1: :-1: :cry: ... but expected.

1. Confirm that the IIS Application Initialization role feature in enabled:
   * On Windows 7 or later: Navigate to **Control Panel** > **Programs** > **Programs and Features** > **Turn Windows features on or off** (left side of the screen). Open **Internet Information Services** > **World Wide Web Services** > **Application Development Features**. Select the check box for **Application Initialization**.
   * On Windows Server 2008 R2 or later, open the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**. When you reach the **Select role services** panel, open the **Application Development** node and select the **Application Initialization** check box.
1. In IIS Manager, select **Application Pools** in the **Connections** panel.
1. Select the app's app pool in the list.
1. Select **Advanced Settings** under **Edit Application Pool** in the **Actions** panel.

> 1. Set **Start Mode** to **AlwaysRunning**.

Reviewer: Can you confirm that you need to set AlwaysRunning here? I can't remember if we can just do Preload Enabled = True or not.

Author: I'll check ... I didn't check preload + "on demand" for the start mode.

1. Export the updated *applicationHost.config* file to the share.
1. Re-enable the IIS Shared Configuration.

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-2.2"

## Application Initialization

> [IIS Application Initialization](/iis/get-started/whats-new-in-iis-8/iis-80-application-initialization) is an IIS feature that sends a fake HTTP request to the app. The request triggers the app to start. Application Initialization can be used by both the [in-process hosting model](xref:fundamentals/servers/index#in-process-hosting-model) and [out-of-process hosting model](xref:fundamentals/servers/index#out-of-process-hosting-model) with the ASP.NET Core Module version 2.

Reviewer 2: is an IIS feature that sends a ~fake~ HTTP request to the app. 

No such thing as a fake request. Won't MT.

Author: Yeah ... I was a bit worried about that, too. I'll touch it up.

Author: "fake" is a word that MS engineers apply to **_my programming skills_**. 😀 lol
